hi this is Pam dinner thank you for
tuning in to b2b marketing and more with
me and this is the place I want to help
you to become a better b2b marketer and
I share my experience templates and
know-how so you can do your job better
and this thing strategically by doing
that hopefully you can get promoted
faster but today I want to talk about a
very common issue that very few people
actually discuss how do you manage your
workloads if you are overworked and
under stress how do we solve that issue
and they are five takeaways number one
have a conversation with your manager
number two allocate your budget
accordingly number three have a
conversation with your internal
stakeholders number four
change your attitude and refocus number
five that your frustration out so I want
to share with you a personal story
several weeks ago a friend of mine
that's call her Mary
call me up and she sounded very stress
on the phone and she wanted to quit her
job I was like that's not a good idea
you know Mary you worked for a great
company and the pain and benefit are
fantastic and I asked her specifically I
say are you quitting the job to go
somewhere and she say no she just
incredibly frustrated with the current
situation and she has been working over
70 or 80 hours a week in the past six to
nine months and the company went through
a massive rework and had a huge product
launch and on top of it to make things
worse her five person team two people
left so she is doing multiple job and
just to cover and get things flow and
that's hard I get it and I said you know
what let's talk about this issue
and determine what we can do but don't
quit your job by weekly paycheck is nice
Mary you know I'm a independent
consultant and having on my own for
about five years
I am Telling You the one thing I miss
the most in the copic world is by weekly
paycheck that's actually very nice you
know
the money is coming into your bank every
two weeks that's great
so I said the a couple things we can do
marry and there will be my suggestions
number one I asked Mary did you have a
conversation a serious and a formal
conversation with your manager and she
said yeah I was like yeah it's not the
answer the answer is did you have the
serious conversation you know to talk
about your word low and she said not
really
well that's an issue right there so you
need to actually have a formal and a
very serious conversation with your
manager it's kind of like a file a
formal complaint you know so you have to
make it very serious but before you do
that you need to complete some homework
you need to do some preparation the one
thing that you need to do and I told
Mary is that you actually have to list
deliverables that you have complet in
the past six to nine months why not a
couple things that you have done great
that started with something positive
second thing is document and write down
a list of the things that she is doing
right now that requires 70 or 80 hours
of work load what are the things that
she's doing that requires to work
requires her to work so hard number
three also have a list of deliverables
identify a list of deliverables that
needs to be completed in the next six to
eight weeks right based on that
information
she can prioritize and D prioritize some
of the workloads use that list to have a
productive conversation with the manager
okay and I told her I said she needs to
do that first second thing I suggested
was hey Mary do you have a marketing
budget if you do have a marketing budget
can you allocate some of that budget to
hire a contractor or agency to actually
help you out I understand that some of
the budget you can move around but some
budget you can't right so what is the
policy of the marketing budget what are
some of the budget that you can move
around and maybe that can also be a
conversation as the part of the
discussion with the manager right so
look at your marketing budget
see if you can move the marketing budget
to hire someone to help you out the
third thing I suggested to Mary was
having a conversation with internal
stakeholders obviously marketing is a
support organization we have to support
sales team product marketing team
business units etc right in addition to
our regular marketing job so there are
many requests coming aimed to the
marketing organization or to the
marketers from the internal stakeholders
and giving that she is two people down
with that there are probably many tasks
or deliverables which cannot be done to
meet internal stakeholders expectations
therefore is important to have that
conversation with your internal
stakeholders to determine what can be
done why can't right and Mary try to
please everybody and she again did not
have that conversation with her internal
stakeholders so that is something also
needs to be done he'll have a very frank
open and honest conversation with the
internal stakeholders number four
change your attitude and refocus I told
her and this happened to me as well
marketing is not life and death to be
honest it's not like we have doctors and
we missed our diagnosis and a patient
may die right most of the marketing
activity especially routine marketing
outreach or marketing tasks right
sometimes can be delayed it's not like
oh you are working for your CEOs keynote
or you have a massive a product launch
these type of things you cannot push
that out you have to prove it you have
to meet the deadline I get but some of
the routine marketing activities you
know what if you have to slip for
several days so be it but make sure you
communicate that whether you internal
stakeholders so everybody is on the same
page right so you have to change your
attitude a little bit I'm the guilty one
to be honest a lot of time I put so much
pressure on myself that I have to get
something done I'm like laser focus I
want to get it done get it done get it
done if I
get it done I completely stress myself
out Mary is very similar to me in that
regard so I told Mary I say sometimes we
just have to let it go and I have to
consciously remind myself it's okay not
to get certain things done today right
we still have tomorrow hopefully number
five it's that your frustration out and
I'm so happy that Mary call me and have
this conversation she's venting it's
kind of like a therapy session you kind
of let your frustration out talk it
through so you don't want all that
frustration to be very inside that is
not healthy we all know that so talk to
you colleagues sometimes you know what
you might be on the same boat maybe that
person is also working on ours right so
having some sort of support group or
discussions actually very helpful and
then talk to your family members talk to
you or you know even therapists for that
matter but talk it out talk it out talk
it out don't that the frustration very
inside you so these are the five things
I share with Mary and a couple days ago
we have a brief conversation she says
she had a great conversation with her
manager yay and she also allocated and
got a pool oh of course some of the
budget to hire contractor yay and that
the meeting with internal stakeholders
didn't go that well and the manager
needs to intervene and that's okay right
just the way it is but they kind of
really in terms of the some of the
deliverables needs to be pushed out and
they agree on certain dates and that's
actually good so that's actually a good
news overall it's still very stressful
for Mary but somehow she feel like she's
managing it with that being said how do
you deal with were close when you are
overworked and understaffed do you have
any suggestion that you can share with
me I would love to hear from you if you
have any specific questions send a
question to Pam at Pam dinner comm I
want to find a way to address that
either in my podcast or the YouTube
channel so thank you so much so much for
tuning to my show really appreciated if
you like the content subscribe below or
share the information where
anybody who may benefit I really
appreciate that it means a lot to me
okay thank you so much and I will see
you next time